Project Statement for Milestone 1
You team name
(Team members’ names)
Overview:
At the end of Milestone-1 of the project, teams should have defined the project scope,
categorized its dataset, and chosen an appropriate data model, and researched big data tools.
Teams should have met a few times to develop a common understanding of the problem
statement and project goals. Teams should have downloaded the data, identified its
properties/attributes, and chosen an appropriate data model for the project. Teams should also
have researched on the available tools (NoSQL database, Hadoop/Spark, etc.) for future steps.
Teams are not required to setup a NoSQL database or Hadoop/Spark data processing frameworks
during Milestone-1. All team members are expected to contribute significantly to the project
milestone tasks.
Note: Since some datasets are significantly larger than others, teams can choose to perform data
preparation on a reduced dataset (>10 MB and <500 MB) for Milestone 1. However, they would
still need to implement the final solution on a large dataset (>1 GB and <20 GB).
Project Report Topics:
The report should cover the following subtopics and answer the questions listed:
1. Problem Statement and Project Goals:
a. Give a formal description of the project. Include a description of the dataset and its
links.
b. Why is the problem you want to address important? What’s its application?
c. Specify the goal you want to achieve (an end-to-end application with a graphical
user interface, and/or a research-based evaluation of existing and new algorithms).
2. Team Description:
a. Who are the team members? What knowledge and skills do the team have from
previous courses, projects, or internships?
b. What will be each team member’s roles and responsibilities in the current project?
3. Dataset Type and Data Model:
a. A dataset can be described with more than one data model. Evaluate the dataset
against each of the following data models, reporting its statistics:
i. Key-Value: Can the data be represented with a key-value data model? If so,
how many key-value pairs represent the dataset? How many unique keys?
What are the data types for keys and values? Are these basic data types or
data structures?
ii. Graph: Can the data be represented with a graph data model? If so, how
many nodes and edges represent the dataset? How many attributes are there
for the nodes/edges? Is it labelled? Directed?
iii. Document: Can the data be represented with a document data model? If so,
how many documents represent your dataset? How many elements / sub-
elements does each document has? What are the attributes?
iv.Other: Can the data be represented by any other non-relational data model?
If so, describe the data model and the applicable statistics on your dataset.
b. Describe the data model your team has chosen to represent the dataset? Justify why
the data model is an appropriate one for the dataset. Note: You should be using a
non-relational data model for this project.
Note: I recommend that each team member work on this task individually to develop an
understanding of the dataset and data model options. The team can then compile a single
response for the milestone document.
4. Tools:
a. What database tools do you plan to use?
b. What data processing tools do you plan to use?
c. What cloud resources, if any, do you plan to use?
Peer Evaluation:
Each team member should complete the CATME Peer Evaluation survey.
Grading:
• 25 pts: The team has completed all required tasks for the project milestone. The team has
provided all relevant information, including links, in the project milestone report.